---
layout: post
title:  "Little Screens"
date:   2015-10-13 18:13:23
categories: jekyll update
permalink: little-screens
---
I’ve never had the experience of designing anything for a mobile app before this past weekend. In fact, my experience with mobile apps had been pretty scant up until I started this Iron Yard bootcamp. What I was to learn first hand were the significant differences between what we’ve been working on up until this point and apps intended to run on a specific platform, primarily phones. It felt, initially, almost like a website in microcosm, where you could almost control the context, from loading your own fonts (which after my recent struggles with TypeKit sounded pretty desirable) to the ability to work completely offline.

The project itself consisted of much of what we’ve come to expect: research, style tiles, and sketches, but this time we added prototyping into the mix. The advantage of prototyping is the ability to create a rough draft of something and put it “through the paces” in some semblance of a real user experience. It’s fascinating to see your preconceptions and biases fall away when you’re presented with an actual human interacting with what was just an idea only a day prior. 

Before starting this cohort, I had no idea that so many of the designs I’d be working on would be geared for screens so small, but that’s the reality we live in. In a mobile market that’s quickly expanding and with more and more content being viewed on handheld devices, the combination of mobile apps and responsive, mobile-optimized websites aren’t merely the future, they’re the present. 